>> Jem Young: All right,
another thing we we touched on
is something called permissions.
So permissions kind of are based on this
idea that eventually someone probably will
get into your server.
That's not actually true, but
it's kind of thinking along those lines.
Permissions mean you're locking
down what you can do with a file.
And those things, actually I'll ask you,
what are the things you
can do with a file?
And there's only three things,
and they're pretty fundamental.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Read, write, execute.
>> Jem Young: Exactly, you can read
a file, you can write to a file, and
you can execute that file if
it's some sort of program, and
permissions are all
about controlling that.
For instance, we use sudo for everything
because we don't have permission
to modify, say, the firewall or
something like that.
So we're using the super
user power to do that.
Which means if someone
came into my server and
they don't know my sudo password they
can still cause a lot of trouble.
But they're gonna be very limited in their
blast radius because they don't have that
route permission, which pretty much
ignores all of the permissions.
So we have this concept
of file permissions.
Yesterday we modified our authorized
key file to be readable and
writable by only us and the super user
because we don't want people coming in and
modifying that key file if they don't have
access to my account or the root account.
And I mentioned that the decode, the
numbers that we use are kind of arcane.
There is a conversion that converts
what's readable and writable to my
user versus the root user, but I've looked
it up once and it's really complicated.
So it's better just to memorize
the ones that you only need.
I'll say this, it's really tempting.
You've probably seen code examples
to use the chmod command.
So that's change modification,
which means permissions for a file.
And it's really easy just to be,
well, I need this file to be read and
I don't have permission to do it right
now so I'm trying to execute it.
And that can only be executed
by the super user so
I'm just going to make it chmod 777.
That's one you see all the time, and
that's what's known as the laziest
permission because it means you don't
have to think about permissions.
It's just open to everybody.
You shouldn't do 777 unless you
really know what you're doing or,
I won't say you're in a hurry,
cuz [LAUGH] that's so bad.
But if you're in a hurry and
you're trying to execute a script and
it has no security ramifications you
can use 777, but you generally don't.
We're not gonna do too
much with permissions, but
if you wanna take a look at them.
Let's say we're in our home directory,
there's nothing major.
So we can say ls -la and it's gonna tell
me all the permissions for read, write.
And so it's read, write, execute for
myself, read, write, execute for my group,
which is sudo, and read,
write, execute for everyone.
And that's what the permissions,
I really wish they would map chmod to
the actual commands here but they don't.
So you just have to memorize some of them.
But if you see 777 it's gonna be read,
write, execute across the board for
everything.
Just don't use that one.
And actually, I'll just look up man chmod.
>> Jem Young: Change file mode bits, yeah.
>> Jem Young: Maybe for
a bonus trivia over lunch we can look up
what exactly maps like a four
to the permission level.
And there is a mapping,
it just is not intuitive.
>> Jem Young: But in general, you always
wanna have the least trust for your file.
So if a group or
user doesn't need to specifically
access a file, just lock it down.
You want to have the least
permissions as possible
just in case someone
gets into your server.
Or think of a case in terms of DevOps.
If you're running a server for lots of
users, you don't want them to be able to
enable permissions for everybody because
one of those users is probably gonna
have a bad password or something like
that or a bad key that got stolen.
And if someone breaks in with that,
you want them to be able to do
the least amount of damage.